README.md, before:

# Mixlib::CLI

[![Build Status Master](https://travis-ci.org/chef/mixlib-cli.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chef/mixlib-cli) [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/mixlib-cli.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/mixlib-cli)

Mixlib::CLI provides a class-based command line option parsing object, like the one used in Chef, Ohai and Relish. To use in your project:

```ruby
require 'mixlib/cli'

class MyCLI
  include Mixlib::CLI

  option :config_file,
    :short => "-c CONFIG",
    :long  => "--config CONFIG",
    :default => 'config.rb',
    :description => "The configuration file to use"

  option :log_level,
    :short => "-l LEVEL",
    :long  => "--log_level LEVEL",
    :description => "Set the log level (debug, info, warn, error, fatal)",
    :required => true,
    :in => [:debug, :info, :warn, :error, :fatal],
    :proc => Proc.new { |l| l.to_sym }

  option :help,
    :short => "-h",
    :long => "--help",
    :description => "Show this message",
    :on => :tail,
    :boolean => true,
    :show_options => true,
    :exit => 0

end

# ARGV = [ '-c', 'foo.rb', '-l', 'debug' ]
cli = MyCLI.new
cli.parse_options
cli.config[:config_file] # 'foo.rb'
cli.config[:log_level]   # :debug
```

If you are using this in conjunction with Mixlib::Config, you can do something like this (building on the above definition):

```ruby
class MyConfig
  extend(Mixlib::Config)

  log_level   :info
  config_file "default.rb"
end

class MyCLI
  def run(argv=ARGV)
    parse_options(argv)
    MyConfig.merge!(config)
  end
end

c = MyCLI.new
# ARGV = [ '-l', 'debug' ]
c.run
MyConfig[:log_level] # :debug
```

Available arguments to 'option':

- `:short`: The short option, just like from optparse. Example: "-l LEVEL"
- `:long`: The long option, just like from optparse.  Example: "--level LEVEL"
- `:description`: The description for this item, just like from optparse.
- `:default`: A default value for this option
- `:required`: Prints a message informing the user of the missing requirement, and exits.  Default is false.
- `:on`: Set to :tail to appear at the end, or `:head`: to appear at the top.
- `:boolean:`: If this option takes no arguments, set this to true.
- `:show_options`: If you want the option list printed when this option is called, set this to true.
- `:exit`: Exit your program with the exit code when this option is specified. Example: 0
- `:proc`: If set, the configuration value will be set to the return value of this proc.
- `:in`: An array containing the list of accepted values

If you need access to the leftover options that aren't captured in the config, you can get at them through +cli_arguments+ (referring to the above definition of MyCLI).

```ruby
# ARGV = [ '-c', 'foo.rb', '-l', 'debug', 'file1', 'file2', 'file3' ]
cli = MyCLI.new
cli.parse_options
cli.cli_arguments # [ 'file1', 'file2', 'file3' ]
```

## LICENSE:

- Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2008-2018 Chef Software, Inc.
- License:: Apache License, Version 2.0

```text
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

Commit message:

Add contributing docs link
Signed-off-by: Tim Smith <tsmith@chef.io>

README.md, after:

# Mixlib::CLI

[![Build Status Master](https://travis-ci.org/chef/mixlib-cli.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chef/mixlib-cli) [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/mixlib-cli.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/mixlib-cli)

Mixlib::CLI provides a class-based command line option parsing object, like the one used in Chef, Ohai and Relish. To use in your project:

```ruby
require 'mixlib/cli'

class MyCLI
  include Mixlib::CLI

  option :config_file,
    :short => "-c CONFIG",
    :long  => "--config CONFIG",
    :default => 'config.rb',
    :description => "The configuration file to use"

  option :log_level,
    :short => "-l LEVEL",
    :long  => "--log_level LEVEL",
    :description => "Set the log level (debug, info, warn, error, fatal)",
    :required => true,
    :in => [:debug, :info, :warn, :error, :fatal],
    :proc => Proc.new { |l| l.to_sym }

  option :help,
    :short => "-h",
    :long => "--help",
    :description => "Show this message",
    :on => :tail,
    :boolean => true,
    :show_options => true,
    :exit => 0

end

# ARGV = [ '-c', 'foo.rb', '-l', 'debug' ]
cli = MyCLI.new
cli.parse_options
cli.config[:config_file] # 'foo.rb'
cli.config[:log_level]   # :debug
```

If you are using this in conjunction with Mixlib::Config, you can do something like this (building on the above definition):

```ruby
class MyConfig
  extend(Mixlib::Config)

  log_level   :info
  config_file "default.rb"
end

class MyCLI
  def run(argv=ARGV)
    parse_options(argv)
    MyConfig.merge!(config)
  end
end

c = MyCLI.new
# ARGV = [ '-l', 'debug' ]
c.run
MyConfig[:log_level] # :debug
```

Available arguments to 'option':

- `:short`: The short option, just like from optparse. Example: "-l LEVEL"
- `:long`: The long option, just like from optparse. Example: "--level LEVEL"
- `:description`: The description for this item, just like from optparse.
- `:default`: A default value for this option
- `:required`: Prints a message informing the user of the missing requirement, and exits. Default is false.
- `:on`: Set to :tail to appear at the end, or `:head`: to appear at the top.
- `:boolean:`: If this option takes no arguments, set this to true.
- `:show_options`: If you want the option list printed when this option is called, set this to true.
- `:exit`: Exit your program with the exit code when this option is specified. Example: 0
- `:proc`: If set, the configuration value will be set to the return value of this proc.
- `:in`: An array containing the list of accepted values

If you need access to the leftover options that aren't captured in the config, you can get at them through +cli_arguments+ (referring to the above definition of MyCLI).

```ruby
# ARGV = [ '-c', 'foo.rb', '-l', 'debug', 'file1', 'file2', 'file3' ]
cli = MyCLI.new
cli.parse_options
cli.cli_arguments # [ 'file1', 'file2', 'file3' ]
```

## Contributing

For information on contributing to this gem please see our [Contributing Documentation](https://github.com/chef/chef/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License & Copyright

- Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2008-2018 Chef Software, Inc.
- License:: Apache License, Version 2.0

```text
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```
